README.md, before:

# Technology of the Month

This is the Github repo that backs the [Technology of the Month](http://pshendry.github.io/totm/) site.

## Contributing

#### Writing posts

A post can be written (without publishing it) by creating a new file in the
`_drafts` directory. It's easiest to copy `_drafts/template.md` to a new file
with a filename of the form `yyyy-mm-dd-name-of-the-post.md`; the template
contains the header (the stuff within the triple dashes) that every post file
needs. From there you can add all the Markdown content you need. When you're
done, just submit a pull request to have your drafts pushed up to the
deployment branch (`gh-pages`).

By taking advantage of drafts, you can write several weeks' worth of content in advance.

#### Publishing posts

Unfortunately there's no automated publishing system in place, so it has to be
done manually :(.

##### Without collaborator privileges

Coordinate with [pshendry](https://github.com/pshendry) or another collaborator
on this one. All that needs to happen (assuming that your draft is complete) is
for the draft to be moved into the `_posts` directory, so you could make a pull
request yourself for making this change, but someone would likely be happy to
publish it for you at the appropriate time.

##### Obtaining collaborator privileges

If you've got collaborator privileges you can publish your posts without a
pull request, so talk to [pshendry](https://github.com/pshendry) if you're making
several contributions and want to save yourself some trouble.

#### Content Authoring Resources

##### Markdown basics

Github has a nice tutorial on [Markdown basics](https://help.github.com/articles/markdown-basics/).

##### Viewing changes locally using Jekyll

This site uses [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/), which will create HTML pages out
of Markdown content. If you like, you can install Jekyll locally so that you
preview changes.

 - [Installing Jekyll](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/#installing-jekyll)
 - [Running Jekyll](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/#running-jekyll)
   - Note: Run the following command instead of the one provided there: `bundle exec jekyll serve -b ""`;
     this overrides the baseurl of "/totm".

The instructions are not super detailed, so here's step-by-step instructions
for Ubuntu:

 - Open a terminal and navigate to the repository root;
 - Run `sudo apt-get install ruby-dev nodejs` to install dependencies;
 - Run `sudo gem install bundler` to install the Bundler package manager;
 - Run `bundle install` to install Jekyll locally;
 - Run `bundle exec jekyll serve -b ""` to start a local Jekyll server;
 - Visit `http://localhost:4000/` to view the site based on your local state,
   exactly as it would appear if pushed to the GitHub Pages site.

Commit message:

Add note about --drafts flag

README.md, after:

# Technology of the Month

This is the Github repo that backs the [Technology of the Month](http://pshendry.github.io/totm/) site.

## Contributing

#### Writing posts

A post can be written (without publishing it) by creating a new file in the
`_drafts` directory. It's easiest to copy `_drafts/template.md` to a new file
with a filename of the form `yyyy-mm-dd-name-of-the-post.md`; the template
contains the header (the stuff within the triple dashes) that every post file
needs. From there you can add all the Markdown content you need. When you're
done, just submit a pull request to have your drafts pushed up to the
deployment branch (`gh-pages`).

By taking advantage of drafts, you can write several weeks' worth of content in advance.

#### Publishing posts

Unfortunately there's no automated publishing system in place, so it has to be
done manually :(.

##### Without collaborator privileges

Coordinate with [pshendry](https://github.com/pshendry) or another collaborator
on this one. All that needs to happen (assuming that your draft is complete) is
for the draft to be moved into the `_posts` directory, so you could make a pull
request yourself for making this change, but someone would likely be happy to
publish it for you at the appropriate time.

##### Obtaining collaborator privileges

If you've got collaborator privileges you can publish your posts without a
pull request, so talk to [pshendry](https://github.com/pshendry) if you're making
several contributions and want to save yourself some trouble.

#### Content Authoring Resources

##### Markdown basics

Github has a nice tutorial on [Markdown basics](https://help.github.com/articles/markdown-basics/).

##### Viewing changes locally using Jekyll

This site uses [Jekyll](http://jekyllrb.com/), which will create HTML pages out
of Markdown content. If you like, you can install Jekyll locally so that you
preview changes; you can also preview drafts in this way.

 - [Installing Jekyll](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/#installing-jekyll)
 - [Running Jekyll](https://help.github.com/articles/using-jekyll-with-pages/#running-jekyll)
   - Note: Run the following command instead of the one provided there: `bundle exec jekyll serve -b ""`;
     this overrides the baseurl of "/totm".
   - Pass the `--drafts` flag to preview drafts in addition to posts.

The instructions are not super detailed, so here's step-by-step instructions
for Ubuntu:

 - Open a terminal and navigate to the repository root;
 - Run `sudo apt-get install ruby-dev nodejs` to install dependencies;
 - Run `sudo gem install bundler` to install the Bundler package manager;
 - Run `bundle install` to install Jekyll locally;
 - Run `bundle exec jekyll serve -b ""` to start a local Jekyll server;
 - Visit `http://localhost:4000/` to view the site based on your local state,
   exactly as it would appear if pushed to the GitHub Pages site.
